# Harvard Videogame Final Project
This is the final Project for the CS50's Introduction to Game Development open course from Harvard.

## Summary
BladeCore is the name of the game I have developed in Unity. It's a singleplayer or local coop multiplayer platformer in which both players fight agaisnt enemies with their swords. The level is randomly generated by the LevelGenerator algorithm I coded. Each level increases its size as you win.

## Specifications
The game acomplishes all the assignment specifications as I show below
- Made in Unity as I already said and coded in C#. The genre is platformer.
- The infinite level generation meets the condition of making a cohesive start-to-finish experience.
- It has three game states (scenes): Menu, Play and GameOver. 
- Even though I use free assets from the Unity Asset store, every line of code is handwritten and some of the sprites are self made too.

## Highlited elements
In order to show the complexity of the game I will highlight some aspects of the game.

### Enemy AI
**Enemy AI** logic divides in *several Coroutines* in its script where checks where the player is and which player is closer.
```csharp
// StartCoroutine of AI RandomMovement
// This will only perform when the enemy hasn't found the Player
StartCoroutine(RandomMovement());

// StartCoroutine FollowPlayer which will allow the enemy to know if there are any
// players nearby and which one is the closest one
StartCoroutine(FollowPlayer());

// The enemy will jump if it collides with something in the way
StartCoroutine(ShouldJump());

// Jump according to a collider that finds holes
StartCoroutine(JumpOverHoles());
```
The enemy will move randomly with another coroutine when it hasn't found any player. It will attack when it's close enough to the player and will jump according to some colliders depending on if it has to jump over some hole or over some obstacle.
```csharp
// We want to know which is the closest player
float direction = closestPlayer(playersPosition);
xMovement = speed * direction; 
```
```csharp
// Detect floor holes or obstacles
Collider2D[] hit = Physics2D.OverlapCircleAll(attackCenter.position, stats.Range / 2, shouldJump);

if (hit.Length > 0)
    jump = true;
```

### Level Generator
**Level Generator** script uses TileSet class for generating different level styles (I've implemented three of them) and bases its operation in a two dimension bool array. We firstly generate the array creating holes and making it irregular and with this array the script will generate the tilemap with all its propeties.
```csharp
// Initialize array
mapArray = new bool[size.x, size.y];
initialArray(mapArray, size);
```
> This uses some of the stuff viewed in assignment 4 and assignment 9 algorithms but takes them even further.

### Stats
**Stat** system uses inheritance for PlayerStats and EnemyStats to simplify it. This way I've been able of generating three different enemies with the same script by changing its pubilc values.
`public class PlayerStats : Stats`

## Conclusion
Although those are the most complex elements, I have implemented some other scripts and components like *ClampPosition, ItemMovement, AudioManager*  system and UI elements and its code.

This is the two-month work that concludes the course and all that I have learned from it. Thanks for watching!